CLI.md, before:

# Lasso CLI

The `lasso` CLI is the primary entry point for running the stack. It reads a
single config file, generates a compose env file, and shells out to `docker
compose` for lifecycle commands. For non‑interactive runs it calls the harness
HTTP API; for TUI runs it starts the harness in TUI mode.

## Configuration

Default config path: `~/.config/lasso/config.yaml`  
Override with: `--config <path>` or `LASSO_CONFIG`.

`lasso config apply` writes a compose env file (default
`~/.config/lasso/compose.env`) and creates the log/workspace directories defined
in the config.

## Global Options

- `--config <path>`: Use a specific config file.
- `--json`: Emit machine‑readable JSON output.
- `--bundle-dir <path>`: Override bundle directory (advanced; for dev use).
- `--env-file <path>`: Override compose env file path (advanced; for dev use).

## Commands

### config
Manage the canonical config file.

- `lasso config init`  
  Create the config file if missing.

- `lasso config edit`  
  Open config in `$VISUAL` or `$EDITOR`.

- `lasso config validate`  
  Validate config (errors on unknown fields).

- `lasso config apply`  
  Generate compose env file and create log/workspace dirs.

### up
Start the stack via Docker Compose.

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.
- `--ui`: include `compose.ui.yml`.
- `--pull <always|missing|never>`: control image pulls.

### down
Stop the stack via Docker Compose.

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.
- `--ui`: include `compose.ui.yml`.

### status
Show running containers (compose `ps` output).

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.
- `--ui`: include `compose.ui.yml`.

### run
Trigger a non‑interactive run via the harness HTTP API.

Usage:
- `lasso run "prompt text"`

Options:
- `--capture-input <bool>`: store prompt in logs (default true).
- `--cwd <path>`: working directory inside the agent.
- `--timeout-sec <seconds>`: job timeout.
- `--env KEY=VALUE` (repeatable): extra env vars for the run.

### tui
Run an interactive session (PTY) via the harness.

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.

### jobs
Inspect job records written by the harness.

- `lasso jobs list`  
  List job IDs under the log root.

- `lasso jobs get <id>`  
  Show job status.json for a specific job.

### doctor
Check local prerequisites (Docker available, log root writable).

### logs
Inspect logs at a high level.

- `lasso logs stats`  
  Estimate average MB/hour from recent sessions.

- `lasso logs tail [--lines N] [--file <name>]`  
  Tail common logs (`audit`, `ebpf`, `timeline`) or a specific file path
  relative to the log root.

## How it works (brief)

1) Read config (`~/.config/lasso/config.yaml`).
2) `config apply` generates `compose.env` with `LASSO_VERSION`,
   `LASSO_LOG_ROOT`, and `LASSO_WORKSPACE_ROOT`.
3) `up/down/status/tui` shell out to `docker compose` with the bundle’s compose
   files and the generated env file.
4) `run` and `jobs` call the harness HTTP API on `127.0.0.1:8081`.

## Examples

```bash
lasso config init
lasso config apply
lasso up --codex
lasso run "say hello"
lasso tui --codex
lasso down
```

Commit message:

Reviewed markdown docs for consistency with current Lasso codebase and updated mismatches
dev_log and HISTORY are now up to date, and the docs
  align with the CLI‑first workflow, compose parameterization, and the current UI copy.

  What I updated

  - README.md: added INSTALL.md + CLI.md to the docs map, removed --service-ports in manual TUI runs, and clarified UI log root is ./logs.
  - CLI.md: added the harness.api_token requirement for lasso run.
  - TESTING.md: marked the CLI/installer plan as implemented, corrected lasso run usage, and aligned test layer wording.
  - EXAMPLE_FLOW.md: renamed to Lasso, removed --service-ports, and added a note about summary vs raw eBPF inputs.
  - agent_harness_vm_layout.md: updated to Lasso defaults, removed proxy container references, refreshed the compose sketch with GHCR image names, and removed
    “TBD” on eBPF.
  - UI_DESIGN.md, UI_API.md, ui/README.md: updated naming to Lasso and aligned header copy with the current UI.
  - overview.md + kernel_auditing_info.md: clarified HTTP proxy as optional/future.
  - platform.md: updated base distro line (agent/harness/collector).
  - dev_log.md + HISTORY.md: added Lasso CLI/release/installer workflow phases and compose parameterization work.

  Notes

  - Remaining agent_harness references are intentional (repo name, history context, release URL, or file name).
  - EXAMPLE_FLOW.md now explicitly calls out that the default pipeline uses filtered_ebpf_summary.jsonl, while the examples keep raw filtered_ebpf.jsonl for
    brevity.

CLI.md, after:

# Lasso CLI

The `lasso` CLI is the primary entry point for running the stack. It reads a
single config file, generates a compose env file, and shells out to `docker
compose` for lifecycle commands. For non‑interactive runs it calls the harness
HTTP API; for TUI runs it starts the harness in TUI mode.

## Configuration

Default config path: `~/.config/lasso/config.yaml`  
Override with: `--config <path>` or `LASSO_CONFIG`.

`lasso config apply` writes a compose env file (default
`~/.config/lasso/compose.env`) and creates the log/workspace directories defined
in the config.
For `lasso run`, `harness.api_token` must be set in the config (or provided via
`HARNESS_API_TOKEN` in the compose env file).

## Global Options

- `--config <path>`: Use a specific config file.
- `--json`: Emit machine‑readable JSON output.
- `--bundle-dir <path>`: Override bundle directory (advanced; for dev use).
- `--env-file <path>`: Override compose env file path (advanced; for dev use).

## Commands

### config
Manage the canonical config file.

- `lasso config init`  
  Create the config file if missing.

- `lasso config edit`  
  Open config in `$VISUAL` or `$EDITOR`.

- `lasso config validate`  
  Validate config (errors on unknown fields).

- `lasso config apply`  
  Generate compose env file and create log/workspace dirs.

### up
Start the stack via Docker Compose.

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.
- `--ui`: include `compose.ui.yml`.
- `--pull <always|missing|never>`: control image pulls.

### down
Stop the stack via Docker Compose.

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.
- `--ui`: include `compose.ui.yml`.

### status
Show running containers (compose `ps` output).

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.
- `--ui`: include `compose.ui.yml`.

### run
Trigger a non‑interactive run via the harness HTTP API.

Usage:
- `lasso run "prompt text"`

Options:
- `--capture-input <bool>`: store prompt in logs (default true).
- `--cwd <path>`: working directory inside the agent.
- `--timeout-sec <seconds>`: job timeout.
- `--env KEY=VALUE` (repeatable): extra env vars for the run.

### tui
Run an interactive session (PTY) via the harness.

Options:
- `--codex`: include `compose.codex.yml`.

### jobs
Inspect job records written by the harness.

- `lasso jobs list`  
  List job IDs under the log root.

- `lasso jobs get <id>`  
  Show job status.json for a specific job.

### doctor
Check local prerequisites (Docker available, log root writable).

### logs
Inspect logs at a high level.

- `lasso logs stats`  
  Estimate average MB/hour from recent sessions.

- `lasso logs tail [--lines N] [--file <name>]`  
  Tail common logs (`audit`, `ebpf`, `timeline`) or a specific file path
  relative to the log root.

## How it works (brief)

1) Read config (`~/.config/lasso/config.yaml`).
2) `config apply` generates `compose.env` with `LASSO_VERSION`,
   `LASSO_LOG_ROOT`, and `LASSO_WORKSPACE_ROOT`.
3) `up/down/status/tui` shell out to `docker compose` with the bundle’s compose
   files and the generated env file.
4) `run` and `jobs` call the harness HTTP API on `127.0.0.1:8081`.

## Examples

```bash
lasso config init
lasso config apply
lasso up --codex
lasso run "say hello"
lasso tui --codex
lasso down
```
